Sleep apnea is a sleep disorder that causes
pauses in breathing or periods of
shallow breathing while asleep.
This disrupts the sleep cycle,
prevents a proper night’s sleep
and may mean you are not getting enough
oxygen to your brain and body.
Obstructive sleep apnea
occurs when the muscles at the
back of the throat relax
and block or narrow the airway.
It can also occur if
you have bone deformities
or larger than normal tissues
in your nose, mouth, or throat.
Symptoms include loud snoring,
daytime sleepiness, and headaches.
More severe apnea,
determined by how often
and how long you don’t breathe,
may cause or worsen
high blood pressure and
coronary artery disease.
Treatment for sleep apnea
may include lifestyle changes,
such as losing weight or
changing sleep positions
or the use of a breathing machine at night.
The most common breathing machine,
called a Continuous Positive Airway Pressure,
or CPAP machine,
uses a uses a hose and mask
or nosepiece to deliver
a steady flow of air.
This air flow helps keep
the airway open
and breathing regular.